Transcribed by Clarity
Do you have any food?
I'm very hungry.
Let down your hair.
You do not pass for a boy.
I'm not afraid.
Travelers spoke in these
hills of the hero Robin Hood.
He protected the weak.
Nobody protects the weak.
And he was no hero.
He observed thrice a day
and gave silver the poor.
And he had the love of Lady Marian.
Is that not a hero?
Lady Marian was taken
from an old Shephard’s tale
by a story teller unfortunately
drunker than I am.
She was the great love of Robin Hood.
There is no great love
for one such as him.
I know who met this man...
Would you like a little secret?
I would.
He never prayed once in his life.
These tales spread across the land.
lies upon lies.
He was a murderous brigand.
Who perhaps cut the throat of a
sheriff and a long line of others.
People saw meaning where there was none.
He was not a hero.
He robbed and killed for the joy of it.
Nothing more.
Those who you met.
Did they say he felt
remorse for his crimes?
I suspect he felt tired.
I would say that if you meet this villain
Robin Hood.
you should make haste away and
keep whatever life you have left here.
Who is your kin?
William Wainwright. of Pickering.
Pickering?
Father?
Grandfather?
You should have bathed.
Or waited for the wind to change.
Or kept your weight on your back foot.
That's all... you did wrong.
They sing lies.
These foolish common folk.
Lies of his heroism and goodness.
But blood debts are owed.
And generations of his victims haunt him.
For. in truth.
none was more wicked and wanted
than the murderous bandit Robin Hood.
And his Little John.
Speak to Thomas.
He was hanged in the South.
Will?
They gutted him.
I have no one else to ask.
What happened?
My name is Edward.
Who was Edward?
Met him on the road ten summers ago.
His brother died.
and he was going to grow ryes.
and peas on his brother's land.
No one knew Edward's face.
So I killed him.
Now I am Edward.
And Margaret is a good wife.
It's a good farm.
What happened?
A family on the land found me out.
He took my farm. he took my Margaret.
He tried to take my life.
I cannot take back alone what's mine.
It's not yours.
It's my family.
I'm tired. John.
Edward.
I'm tired. Edward.
It will be an mighty battle.
One for the stories.
-They are strong.
-Aye.
They come from an old family.
They say they are from Viking blood.
There is a story that once
their elder father fought a bear.
It will be a mighty battle. Robin.
How many are there?
Four... five.
Together. we can best them.
We will likely die.
Robin.
Fred.
This is a good adventure.
Good adventure.
Do you remember when we met the potter
did we leave him naked or did we kill him?
When I tried to tell the story
someone said we left him naked.
I couldn't remember.
You always told it well. Robin.
Why would we leave him naked?
I don't know.
We were just...
-We never met a Potter.
-What do you mean. we've never met him?
I mean. that never happened.
It's just a story you heard somewhere.
But even if we did meet a potter.
we killed him.
I would have remembered
if it were a story.
Yeah.
Tell me about your wife.
Margaret.
She is a good woman.
She's very good woman.
She teaches me prayers for us.
Paint a portrait.
Paint a portrait?
She has hair that's... red.
Red... like?
Red like fresh blood.
No. no.
Something that's red and that's good.
Like a...
Like the setting sun.
Like the setting summer sun.
Margaret's a good wife.
with a hair that is red
like the setting summer sun.
she cares for me.
and I care for her.
Robin.
The open runs past the mountains...
many places to begin again.
I do not aim to begin again.
I aim for a right death.
Go! Hendri!
No. Hendri! Run!
Run! No...
-Hendri!
-Come on!
Hendri. get the others!
Edward!
-Edward.
-My love!
Watch over Little Margaret.
You are safe.
You are safe. daughter.
Let us prey.
O Lord
Our God.
Grant us the grace to desire
thee with our whole hearts.
Come on now. pray.
And in finding thee. we may love thee .
And in loving thee
we may hate those sins from
which thou has redeemed us.
For the sake of Jesus Christ. Amen.
Amen.
Good.
I'm sorry.
It was that when I woke.
Cousin.
Sorry!
We cry to the O'Lord.
Do thou have mercy upon us...
and grant us forgiveness.
O King of heaven and Everlasting Lord.
receive our prayers which we pour forth
And grant forgiveness.
Sick. bring forth the captive.
Help the widow and the orphan.
And grant forgiveness.
We have sinned and departed
from thee
Will thou. Redeemer of all.
save us...
and grant forgiveness.
Have mercy on the penitents.
And wash away the stains of sin.
And grant forgiveness.
Amen.
Godwyn!
Please...
Margaret? Margaret!
No! No!
John! No!
Little John!
Twenty winters ago...
you murdered my cousin.
Walter of Hathersage.
You have now murdered
my son. and my grand son.
As weregild.
I will accept your life. and
the life of your daughter.
No! No!
Robin?
I've heard stories of
a priory hidden away.
There's a Prioress there who's
older than anyone remembers.
She has a healing magic.
I'll take you to her.
She'll get you well again.
I've heard incredible stories.
Robin. We must leave.
They will be hunting us.
Look at the snow.
It's strange for it to fall this late.
But it will stand the ground.
The Lord has his back.
A man brought you here.
He sealed your wounds with fire.
and he didn't do a poor job.
You've been here six days.
You have wounds in your abdomen.
Ribs and a leg badly broken.
Do you understand my words?
Yes.
You are at the Priory of St Clement.
For a place for you to heal.
Well. what town?
There is no town.
Do you know the story of Saul?
What?
There goes. there once was a man. Saul.
a breather of menaces
against disciples of the Lord.
He came to the prince of priests.
and asked of him letters into Damascus.
To the synagogues; that if he across
any men or women of this life.
he should lead them bound...
That is all we need to do.
Just a few drops.
It was not too painful.
It was not.
I'm Sister Brigid.
What is your name?
Randolph.
I owe you an apology. Randolph.
What apology?
You begged from me to let you die.
And I did not.
-You said it was right.
-I was with fever.
Well your fever is passed.
Rest now Randolph.
Your body is covered in scars.
Do you mean anyone in the Priory harm?
I do not.
Will any harm follow you here?
It will not.
You will do them no harm.
Now. back to bed.
Now. back to the door.
Now open the door.
Go as far as you'd like.
Can you row yet?
There is a boat on the West Shore.
It's alright.
You can stay here if
you help in the orchard.
I'm not a farmer.
-And you know not how to hunt?
-Yes I know how to hunt.
There is some game on this island.
But no. you cannot hunt.
You cannot even draw a bow.
-I can draw my bow.
-It's mostly rabbits.
-Do you know how to trap?
-I know how to trap.
Good. but no more than six traps.
or the population will not sustain.
Can you manage six traps?
I can manage six traps.
Good.
And the rest of your time.
you may help in the orchard.
Are you trying to flee?
You are quiet.
I'm quiet and slow.
You are quiet. but you need to be slow.
-You are crippled.
-Ah. you're a leper.
It's alright to be slow.
We are safe here.
That's quite a thing to say.
You know that?
I know that.
Because she has made us safe.
Your Prioress?
She was like us.
She knew great sorrow and great pain.
Widowed young.
But through that sorrow.
She found the strength to heal us.
You do not look like you've been healed.
The Prioress once told me a
story of a great philosopher.
The greatest philosopher of his time.
But one day.
his king turned against him.
Threw him in the dungeon to be
tortured and executed.
But in his misery...
when he had nothing.
an angel came to the
philosopher. and she spoke to him.
And from her. he
learned that it didn't matter
if this whole world was misery.
If all he had was death.
Because he had one thing that
could never be touched or taken.
He had his mind.
And in his mind.
he had God.
It's never too late to find peace.
What are you doing?
I row across every day.
Your friend was strong enough to take
you. but some are not. so I ferry them.
-Will you take me across?
-I will not.
You can row yourself when you're stronger.
For now. work on your tasks.
Trapping. I hear.
-I will hunt.
No. you can't hunt.
Leper.
What happened to that great philosopher?
He was tortured and executed. of course.
Of course.
Oi! Oi!
The leper brought someone.
from the far shore.
Papa's dead.
How is the girl?
Let me show you my trees.
These are the elderberries.
The harvest late in the summer.
Do you know what you were before this?
You'll have to favour
this side. for my hearing.
Pears. I harvest just after...
And what was I before this?
A sell-sword. at best.
At best. certainly.
We have a way about us.
Do you remember the trees?
-Pears and Elderberries.
-Wonderful.
Some of them know...
But the Prioress does
not care who we were.
And the apples harvest in the autumn.
Did she...
speak of what happened to her?
The Prioress is tending to the girl.
You should speak with
her if you are concerned.
What were the trees?
Pears. apples and elderberries.
Wonderful.
This will be your last letting.
Although your body still has much healing.
You look tired.
I am.
But I have been tired before.
The child doesn't sleep.
What happened to her?
Terrible things.
-She told you her story?
-No. she doesn't speak.
She doesn't eat. she doesn't sleep.
What is her name?
Margaret.
Who is she?
I met her father.
A farmer.
Well. he is dead.
-It seems.
-And the mother?
I think dead.
I don't know. Dead past.
Slain?
Perhaps.
You lie very well.
Did the child see?
She could have.
It's much for a child to see.
I'm sorry about your friend.
Thank you.
Do you like me to pray for him?
As you wish.
What was his name?
Edward.
Be not your heart afraid. for ye
believe in God. and ye believe in me.
In the house of my Father
there are many rooms.
And when I make ready for you a place.
I shall come. and take thee to myself.
For where I am. ye may be also.
And whither I go. ye shall know the way.
-Margaret!
-She stabbed me!
Margaret.
It's all right.
Margaret!
It's all right. Margaret. It's all right.
She doesn't know this island.
There are boar about.
Margaret! Margaret!
Oi!
Give it.
Give it!
Those men that hurt you...
do they know you're here?
What is my name?
Say my name.
Randolph.
That's right.
Who is Little John?
That name is nonsense
and you should never speak it.
And if you speak it. a cat will come
in the night and take your tongue.
It's all right.
Go to sleep.
I'll watch the storm.
It's all right. they know.
Close your eyes.
You can sleep.
Sleep.
Thank you for bringing her back.
It was nothing.
Do you know the story of this Priory?
No.
In ages before history. this was
a holy site to the ancient Druids.
They worshipped unknown gods.
Worshipped in these woods.
Then the Romans came long ago.
they sensed the magic of this
place. so they built their temples.
And people upon people sensed it.
and they came here to worship.
Countless gods. tribe after tribe.
that would not even know
how to speak to each other.
And yet. we are all pulled to this place.
Do you believe that there
is Magic on this island?
I believe there is power in it.
I have seen the power in stories.
They can be used to make
men do terrible things.
And then those...
terrible things become stories...
and stories.
No.
You cannot trust any of them.
We cannot be trusted with them.
Knives cut bread as well as they do flesh.
It's a question of balance.
Does balance have a say?
I think if balance didn't have some say.
we wouldn't be here.
This world would not be here and...
and we would not be sharing these words.
Do you ever consider that?
The incredible precision of balance.
over such an expanse of time.
The balance it takes to
create a word. any specific word
that can pass between lips and...
be understood by two minds.
Randolph.
Thank you.
Not hungry?
No?
I will be dying soon.
How do you know?
I could feel it inside.
What does it feel like?
It feels right.
There's someone there.
The waters have been busy.
Start around the feet. Little cuts.
Good. other one.
No.
Good.
Right. now let's tear down the front.
Gut down the belly. Good.
Watch this.
Just like that.
That's it. You do the other one.
That's it. That's it. Hold.
You are a brave young man.
Thank you. Sister.
Are you hungry. Arthur?
I am. Sister.
Sarah will fix you up a good
supper tonight. Herring stew.
Do you like that?
Where do you come from. Arthur?
My family farm toward Keswick.
-Towards Keswick.
-Yes sir.
-Randolph.
-Towards Keswick.
-The leper says you seek your niece.
-I do.
-Were you set upon?
-I was.
-On the road?
Yes.
-We are safe here.
-On which road?
The road to Keswick. sire.
Thank the Lord. you survived.
I do thank the Lord.
How about honeyed pears
after supper for being so brave?
Thank you. Sister.
Little Margaret...
A man Arthur...
Did you ever see him before
you came to the Priory?
Margaret.
The men...
The men who hurt your papa...
did you see their faces?
Papa said to run.
Papa stopped praying.
He was angry.
He prayed in his mind.
What was papa's name?
Your papa is your papa.
Bring it here.
Oh. this is fine work.
Do you see it favours a bend here.
Now you have to balance it.
so it bends evenly.
So. this part here needs to be thin.
Right?
Can you make for me?
I'm gonna make you a bow.
All-right.
Today I remembered the
story by a poet named Lucretius.
He wrote of what are called atoms.
If you pick apart the trees
and people and stones.
these would be the
smallest. indivisible pieces
that make up everything in creation.
And these atoms are
sailing through the void.
And sometimes. for no reason
at all they change their course.
Least amount. not even a hair.
And if it weren't for that small
unpredictable change forcing the atoms to
cross and weave with each other.
nothing at all under
the heavens would exist.
Nice You're good.
Harder.
That's it. Good.
Cut that one.
Good. there we go.
Good.
Which one do you think for your bow?
Let's have a little look.
Okay.
There you go. They are both good.
Margaret.
Margaret. come play.
Arthur.
-Do you know how to trap?
-Yes.
Good. I need a strong hand.
Does your family have land?
Yes.
How many of you are there?
I don't know.
Are you alright?
I'm... I'm not as young as I once was.
Could use a hand up is all.
Thank you.
They delivered you quite a blow.
-Yes.
-Who did it?
A man.
Some men. Bandits.
A man? Bandits?
-Yes.
-May I look?
Quite a blow.
You're lucky you survived.
-You are a lucky boy.
-Yes.
You should be thankful to be alive.
Yes...
It was a quarterstaff.
Lucky it didn't take your head off.
Randolph!
Moshe!
The Prioress said to come.
Are you in great pain?
Do you remember the trees?
Pears. apples and Elderberries.
Wonderful.
You know that you are the most important
person in little Margaret's life.
I'm not important.
Think of all the people whose lives
you've crossed.
We were important somehow. to all of them.
Do you know the story
of Guy of Gisborne...
and Robin Hood?
Yes.
They say you killed him.
Did you really behead him?
You're confused. Leper.
I will not tell a soul.
But don't lie to a man on his deathbed.
So...
did you really behead him?
There was no Guy of Gisborne.
Just one of many tales
that were passed along.
But I've beheaded other men.
You really don't remember?
No.
Think about that name.
There was a Guy of Gisborne.
But you did not behead him.
You cut off his ear.
You said...
in another life.
you would share a drink with him.
Do you remember that.
We seem to have found another life.
Now...
There is one cruelty I would
ask you to not bring about...
You will guard the
orchard until you. too. die.
You will serve the Prioress...
and the people of this
Priory. past and future.
But at no point in that time.
in those good and peaceful years...
will you tell the Prioress
who you really are.
Why?
Because...
One of those...
nameless. faceless death in
the shadows of your mind...
was. in another life...
her beloved.
Promise me.
Robin.
Goodbye. Brigid.
Arthur.
Come.
There is a child on the far shore.
Perhaps it's your niece.
The Leper said you sought your lost niece.
Yes.
-Could it be her?
-We shall see.
I do not see signs of anyone.
We should wait.
Maybe they'll return.
What is your name?
Arthur.
Don't waste time lying to me.
What is your real name?
Godwyn.
You are deciding. Godwyn.
whether to do the deed yourself.
or to fetch your family?
What deed?
How many men have you killed. Godwyn?
How many children have you killed?
I have killed so many. I
could not give you a count.
For longer than you've been alive.
I've been killing kin of those.
I killed a lifetime ago. who I
don't remember in the first.
Who meant nothing to me at that time.
But their brothers and their children.
the grandchildren. they remember me.
And so now I must kill them.
Again and again...
in different forms. like shades... again.
And again. it never ceases.
It's a curse. Godwyn.
It's one that you bring on
yourself. even if done through duty.
It cares not about your duty.
This world cares only about blood...
and blood is all it will give in return.
Do you want to kill a child. Godwin?
Do you want to be responsible
for the killing of a little girl?
No.
Your father is dead?
And your uncles?
I'm the all that's left.
Who else yet lives. Godwyn?
My mother.
My aunts.
My sisters.
You have a home. Godwyn.
-Yes.
-Go home.
Tell your family that all
blood debts have been paid.
They will all be paid someday.
Sleep in your own bed.
Hold dear the life you will
yet share with your kin.
And if you return here...
you will have wasted this
chance at life that I give you now
and I will cut your throat
and never think of you again.
Go now.
Don't look back.
I thought you were departed.
I'm Robin. the outlaw.
You need to know that I am a monster.
I'm not one Randolph.
I am the outlaw...
Robin Hood.
I'm sorry.
Tell me how I should leave.
I will go now.
Get in the bed.
-Brigid.
-Lie down.
You burned my husband alive.
I dream that he was already dead.
but why else did you bar the door?
It felt like a lifetime. searching
the ashes of our home.
And he looked so small.
Curled up in the corner.
with so much of him gone.
And as much as I dream.
I know he was alive.
Because. until the very end. he had
wrapped himself around our children.
Randolph.
It is me.
People speak of Robin Hood...
Tell stories...
They're all lies.
Lies that I told long ago...
So that fools would...
Follow me into the dark.
Robin.
What are they doing to you?
Don't be afraid.
I'll rescue you from this place.
I will rescue Little Margaret.
We're gonna start a new life together.
Edward.
Tell me about your wife.
My wife...
Margaret.
My wife Margaret.
Paint a portrait.
Paint a portrait?
She has hair...
red like...
the setting sun.
Like the setting summer sun.
Red like...
a setting summer...
Sun...
Robin...
Have you found your right death?
I'm ready to finish it.
I owe this life to you.
It is monstrous...
but I owe this life to you.
You owe me nothing.
I have never taken a life before.
It can be as if pruning the flower.
Well. It should not be.
It should not.
But it can.
I help those who come to this island.
I heal them.
Please.
Heal me.
Little Margaret...
Your father's name was John.
I knew him for many years.
before he was your papa.
I met him...
crossing a bridge one day...
over a rushing river.
He was stubborn.
He would not yield.
Not to any men.
Not even to me.
So we wrestled on that bridge.
Striking back and forth.
I whacked him on the side of the head.
He struck me in the stomach.
I wobbled on that bridge...
splashed.
He knocked me on my bum.
Once I dragged myself out...
drenched to the bone...
we embraced.
We called your papa Little John.
And we lived for many years...
as outlaws in the Greenwood.
We had feasts.
We gave silver to the meek.
But we stole that silver.
We stole it...
From bad people.
Do you understand?
Bad people.
Your father...
He would want me to tell you...
Because he loved you so. dear.
You must never tell a soul.
Not even the children you play with.
You must never tell them your papa's name.
There are bad people out there.
And they are angry with your papa.
And so they are angry with you.
Can we keep that secret?
I can keep that secret. Little Margaret.
Can you?
Good.
Now. come beside me.
Take this.
Why was he little?
What?
Why was my papa called "Little"?
Because he was little when I found him.
Like you.
String it.
Bend it with your leg.
as you saw me do.
Go to the window.
Knock an arrow.
Find a point.
where the waters meet the sky.
Pull the arrow to your mouth.
And hold.
I'll tell you when to loose.
And when I do...
you are not letting go...
you simply are not holding on any more.
Watch that target.
Your body will always be moving.
Feel when the arrow will fly true.
You're going to find a dance.
Hold until I tell you to loose...
You are strong.
Feel...
The sway...
That dance...
Now loose.
Transcribed by Clarity